- [Instructor] We just created passwords using plain text
and stored them in the database.
You should never store passwords in plain text.
You should never encrypt your user's passwords either.
You should use a proper,
cryptographically sound one-way hash.
Please note, shell 256 is no longer considered secure
because it can be brute force attacked
by things like high performance GPUs.
There are several valid hash algorithms you can use
and Spring Boot supports them,
but we will use the default one, which is BCrypt.
So let's go ahead and enable that in our system.
All right, I'm going to use the Spring Boot CLI,
which I have on my computer, to hash the passwords for you.
If you want to do this, Spring has documentation online
for installing the Spring CLI,
otherwise, you want to grab these passwords
from the completed exercise files.
They are pretty complex,
and I don't expect you to be able to type them.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up my terminal.
All right, so I'm going to type spring encodepassword,
and the password that I want to encode
is just the word password.
Super secure, but that's okay.
Now I'm going to copy this.
Now you want to be careful if you're copying this
from a terminal that you don't get any extra characters,
so I'm going to make sure I copy just the string.
We're going to go ahead and go to source, main, resources,
and we're going to go to our data.sql file.
And we are going to replace our password
with this BCrypt string.
Now if I were to run this command again,
I would get a different string,
and that's kind of the expectation of BCrypt.
In a real world, you wouldn't want to see
the same hash password twice in your file,
that's kind of a dangerous operation.
For this, it works just fine.
Now there's one more change that we need to make.
We need to go back to our WebSecurityConfig
in source, main, java, BasePackageConfig
and get rid of the NoOpPasswordEncoder.
The default is BCrypt.
So, at this point, we just need to start up our application.
Now let's jump into a web browser,
and let's go to localhost 8080,
click on Customers.
We will start with our user,
password.
We've authenticated, let's kill this window
and create a new one.
And, once again, we will go to localhost 8080,
click on Customers again.
This time we will go with our admin user,
and everything is working great.
So we've now used BCrypt passwords.
which is much better than plain text,
and, again, it is the default,
so this is the behavior that we would've gotten
had we not gone through and done the NoOp.